# CS-340-Client-Server-Development

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**

  The best way to ensure that programs are maintainable, readable, and adaptable is through modular processing and iterative development. Creating modular code allows someone to create, test, and implement piece by piece instead of strapping everything together at the end, and hoping for the best. Iterative development allows a developer to create, test, and update, improving code several times through the development process instead of only completing each phase one. Using common naming conventions for variables, classes, and other parts of the code paired with meaningful comments allows for higher levels of readability and adaptability. 
  When creating the CRUD python module used in Project Two, modular development helped create confidence through testing current methods before moving onto the next. The first two create and read methods were created, tested, and implemented before I began working on the update and delete methods. The advantage to developing this way was that errors were caught early on and were more easily identifiable. The simple and modular design would allow me to take the CRUD module and use those methods to create aggregations searches and other complex queries on the MongoDB database. 

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**

  The first step I take in solving a problem as a computer scientist is to obtain as much information about the problem as possible. This initial step is the most important as I could create a great solution, but if I misunderstood the question or requirements, the solution is quite meaningless. The next step is to reflect on similar problems I have faced and see if those solutions could be applicable to my current problem. The next steps are to gather needed information about new technologies and approaches, create a plan for solving the issue, and create a solution. 
  For the Grazioso Salvare animal database project, my approach was quite similar. I first took in and noted all the requirements, reflected on previous experiences creating user interfaces and working with databases, created a design and plan to solve the problem, and finally coded and created a working deliverable that met all the described requirements. For the most part, this is the same approach I have taken in previous classes, and outside of schoolwork and withing my professional life. I plan to follow this type of plan moving forward as I believe it is effective and delivers good results in a timely fashion.

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**

  Computer Scientist are problem solvers. There are endless types of problems, which is why the solutions, job positions, and approaches can vary by so much. In simple terms, someone has a desire to do, or solve something, and a computer scientist designs a way to meet those needs and build a solution. In the case of this project, this application provides efficiency and simplicity to the client. This dashboard allows Grazioso Salvare to quickly find animals that meet certain criteria, search by any identifier listed, and organize and map animals geographically. This can help eliminate waste looking through physical documents and allow employees to spend time on more productive aspects of the company.

